.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Header: example.1,v 1.2 94/02/15 13:28:25 engel Exp $
.TH netstart 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
netstart \- predict translation start in nucleotide sequences
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnetstart\fP [\fB\-at\fP|\fB\-vert\fP] [\fB\-h\fP] [\fIfile\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netstart
predicts translation start in nucleotide sequences from vertebrates
or dicot plants (e.g. \fIArabidopsis thaliana\fP) using a neural network
approach. The method is described in detail in the reference quoted
below.

Input sequences are read from \fIfiles\fP or, if no file is given,
from standard input. The input format is Pearson \fBFASTA\fP by default.

The default output is text; it will go to \fIstdout\fP. Each input sequence
will be shown with the predicted translation start sites highlighted, followed
by a table showing the positions and the scores of all the instances of
.B ATG
in the sequence. The scores are always in the interval \[0.0, 1.0\]; when
greater than \fB0.5\fP they indicate a probable translation start.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-at
Use networks trained on Arabidopsis thaliana sequences.
.TP
.B \-vert
Use networks trained on vertebrate sequences. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-h
Show the allowed command line syntax.
.TP
.I "file" ...
The input files to process. If not specified, \fIstdin\fP will be used instead.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is \fB0\fP if no errors have occurred and non-zero
otherwise. In the latter case an explanatory diagnostic message
will appear on \fIstdout\fP.

If the \fBnetstart\fP software is not configured correctly or corrupted
the error messages may be hard to interpret.
.SH AUTHORS
Henrik Nielsen, hnielsen@cbs.dtu.dk, Nov 1997.
.br
Anders Gorm Pedersen, gorm@cbs.dtu.dk, Nov 1997.
.br
Soeren Brunak, brunak@cbs.dtu.dk, Nov 1997.
.SH REFERENCE
Neural network prediction of translation initiation sites in eukaryotes:
perspectives for EST and genome analysis,
.br
A. G. Pedersen and H. Nielsen, ISMB 5, 226-233 1997.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/bin/netstart
.br
/usr/local/sw/netstart-1.0		software home
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfasta\fP,
.br
.B http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetStart/
